# IPv4

## Overview

## IP Address

the IP address is just a 32-bit binary number: a set of 32 ones or zeros.

IP addresses are 32-bit binary numbers, which can be expressed in binary, hexadecimal, or decimal form. Most commonly, they are expressed by dividing the 32 bits into four bytes and converting each to decimal, then separating these numbers with dots to create dotted decimal notation.

Since the IP address is 32 bits wide, this provides a theoretical address space of 2^32, or 4,294,967,296 addresses. due to how IP addresses are structured and allocated, not every one of those addresses can actually be used.


* Network Identifier (Network ID)

   A certain number of bits, starting from the leftmost bit, is used to identify the network where the host or other network interface is located. This is also sometimes called the ***network prefix*** or even just the ***prefix***.
* Host Identifier (Host ID)

  The remainder of the bits is used to identify the host on the network.

Routers look at the network portion of the IP address to first determine if the destination IP address is on the same network as the host IP address. Then routing decisions are made based on information the routers keep about where various networks are located.

The basic structure of an IP address consists of two components: the network ID and host ID. The dividing point of the 32-bit address is not fixed, but depends on a number of factors and can occur in a variety of places, including in the middle of a dotted-decimal octet.

### IP Addressing Categories

The original IP addressing scheme is set up so that the dividing line occurs only in one of a few locations: on octet boundaries.
* A类  `[0][7位网络号][24位主机号]`

  范围：`0.0.0.0 ~ 127.255.255.255`

  就是7位网络号都是0，到7位网络号都是1的范围,加上第一位的0
  。`0x00 ~ 0x7f`

* B类  `[10][14位网络号][16位主机号]`

  范围：`128.0.0.0 ~ 191.255.255.255`

  同上，网络号加上10的范围`0x8000 ~ 0xbfff`

* C类  `[110][21位网络号][8位主机号]`

  范围：`192.0.0.0 ~ 223.255.255.255`

  同上，`0xc00000 ~ 0xdfffff`

* D类  `[1110][28位多播组号]`

  范围：`224.0.0.0 ~ 239.255.255.255`

  前四位固定，后四位 `0x0 ~ 0xf`

* E类  `[11110][27位待用]`

  范围：`240.0.0.0 ~ 247.255.255.255`

### 特殊的IP地址
* All Zeros

  When the network ID or host ID bits are replaced by a set of all zeros, the special meaning is the equivalent of the pronoun this, referring to whatever was replaced. It can also be interpreted as the default or the current. For example, if you replace the network ID with all zeros but leave the host ID alone, the resulting address means "the device with the host ID given, on this network,"or "the device with the host ID specified, on the default network or the current network."

* All Ones

  When the network ID or host ID bits are replaced by a set of all ones, this has the special meaning of all, meaning that the IP address refers to all hosts on the network. This is generally used as a broadcast address for sending a message to everyone.

## subnetting

The subnet ***mask*** is a 32-bit binary number that accompanies an IP address. It is created so that it has a one bit for each corresponding bit of the IP address that is part of its network ID or subnet ID, and a zero for each bit of the IP address's host ID.

when you use the subnet mask on an IP address, the bits in the network ID and subnet ID are left intact, while the host ID bits are removed.

why bother with a big 32-bit binary number in that case, instead of just specifying the bit number where the division occurs?
* xxx
* xxx

Instead of writing "IP address of 154.71.150.42 with subnet mask of 255.255.248.0," you can simply write "154.71.150.42/21." This is sometimes called ***slash notation or Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) notation***.

### VLSM variable length subnet masking

***Variable Length Subnet Masking (VLSM)*** is a technique for which subnetting is performed multiple times in iteration to allow a network to be divided into a hierarchy of subnetworks that vary in size. This allows an organization to better match the size of its subnets to the requirements of its networks.

The idea is that you subnet the network and then subnet the subnets just the way you originally subnetted the network.

### IP Subnetting

#### Step 1. Analyzing Requirements

Before you look at the gory details of host addresses and subnet masks, you must decide how to subnet the network.

Questions:
* What class is the IP address block?
* How many physical subnets are on the network today? (A physical subnet generally refers to a broadcast domain on a LAN—a set of hosts on a physical network bounded by routers.)
* Do you anticipate adding any more physical networks in the near future, and if so, how many?
* How many hosts do you have in the largest of the subnets today?
* How many hosts do you anticipate having in the largest subnet in the near future?

#### Step 2. Partitioning Network Address Host Bits

* Each bit taken from the host ID for the subnet ID doubles the number of subnets that are possible in the network.
* Each bit taken from the host ID for the subnet ID (approximately) halves the number of hosts that are possible within each subnet on the network.

具体数字：
* The number of subnets allowed in the network is two to the power of the number of subnet ID bits.
* The number of hosts allowed per subnet is two to the power of the number of host ID bits, less two.

  You subtract two from the number of hosts in each subnet to exclude the special meaning cases where the host ID is all zeros or all ones.

#### Step 3. Determining the Custom Subnet Mask

#### Step 4. Determining Subnet Identifiers and Subnet Addresses

Using Subnet Address Formulas to Calculate Subnet Addresses:
...

## Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)

subnet不能够解决的问题：
* It cannot correct the fundamental inefficiencies associated with that type of addressing, because organizations are still assigned address blocks based on classes.

Just as ***VLSM*** allows you split a network as many times as you want to create subnets, sub-subnets, and sub-sub-subnets, CIDR lets you do this with the entire Internet, as many times as needed.

优势：
* Efficient Address Space Allocation
* Elimination of Class Imbalances

  There are no more Class A, B, and C networks, so there is no problem with some portions of the address space being widely used while others are neglected.

* Efficient Routing Entries
* No Separate Subnetting Method

Since there are no address classes in CIDR, you cannot tell the size of the network ID of an address from the address alone. In CIDR, the length of the prefix (network ID) is indicated by placing it following a slash after the address. This is called CIDR notation, or slash notation.

## IP Datagram

* IP Datagram Time to Live (TTL) Field

  To ensure that datagrams don't circle around endlessly, the TTL field was designed to contain a time value (in seconds), which would be filled in when the datagram was originally sent. Routers would decrease the time value periodically, and if it ever hit zero, destroy the datagram. The TTL field was also designed to ensure that time-critical datagrams wouldn't become stale or pass their expiration date.

  Instead, this field is used as a maximum hop count for the datagram. Each time a router processes a datagram, it reduces the value of the TTL field by one. If doing this results in the field being zero, the datagram is said to have expired, at which point it is dropped, and usually an ***Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP)*** Time Exceeded message is sent to inform the originator of the message that it has expired.

* IP Datagram Type of Service (TOS) Field

* IP Datagram Options and Option Format

  Each IPv4 datagram has a 20-byte mandatory header and may also include one or more options. Each option has its own field format, and most are variable in size.

  The IP datagram may contain zero, one, or more options, so the total length of the Options field in the IP header is variable. Since the IP header must be a multiple of 32 bits, a Padding field is included if the number of bits in all options together is not a multiple of 32 bits.

  IPv4 Option Format:
  1. Option Type, 1 byte
    1. Copied Flag, 1 bit.

      This bit is set to 1 if the option is intended to be copied into all fragments when a datagram is fragmented; it is cleared to 0 if the option should not be copied into fragments.

    2. Option Class, 2 bits

      Specifies one of four potential values that indicate the general category into which the option belongs. In fact, only two of the values are used: ***0*** is for Control options, and ***2*** for Debugging and Measurement.

    3. Option Number, 5 bits

      Specifies the kind of option. 32 different values can be specified for each of the two option classes.

  2. Option Length, 0 or 1 byte

    For variable-length options, indicates the size of the entire option, including all three subfields shown here, in bytes.

  3. Option Data, 0 or variable

    For variable-length options, contains data to be sent as part of the option.

  Normally, IP datagrams are routed without any specific instructions from devices about the path a datagram should take from the source to the destination. It's the job of routers to use routing protocols and to figure out those details. In some cases, however, it may be advantageous to have the source of a datagram specify the route a datagram takes through the network. This process is called ***source routing***.

  There are two IP options that support source routing. In each, the option includes a list of IP addresses that specify the routers that must be used to reach the destination. When ***strict source routing*** is used, the path specified in the option must be used exactly, in sequence, with no other routers permitted to handle the datagram at all. In contrast, ***loose source routing*** specifies a list of IP addresses that must be followed in sequence, but it allows intervening hops between the devices on the list. (For full details on the exact structure used by each option type, please refer to RFC 791.)

## IP DATAGRAM SIZE, FRAGMENTATION, AND REASSEMBLY

The data link layer implementation puts the entire IP datagram into the data portion (the payload) of its frame format, just as IP puts transport layer messages—transport headers and all—into its IP Data field. This immediately presents us with a potential issue:
***matching the size of the IP datagram to the size of the underlying data link layer frame size.***


## Router

A router make decisions about how to route datagrams using its internal ***routing table***. The table contains entries specifying to which router datagrams should be sent in order to reach a particular network.

Each router maintains a set of information that provides a mapping between different network IDs and the other routers to which it is connected. This information is contained in a data structure normally called a ***routing table***.

Each entry in the table, called a ***routing entry***, provides information about one network (or subnetwork or host).
