# Layer 2.5

OSI model layer 2.5, The main job performed here is address resolution, or providing mappings between layer 2 and layer 3 addresses.

## ARP Address Resolution Protocol

### Concept

The layer 2 addresses are used for local transmissions between hardware devices that can communicate directly. layer 3 addresses (most commonly, IP addresses) are used in internetworking to create the equivalent of a massive virtual network at the network layer.

Layer 2 deals with directly connected devices (on the same network), while layer 3 deals with indirectly connected devices (as well as directly connected ones).

Address resolution can be accomplished in two basic ways: direct mapping and dynamic resolution.

Address Resolution Through Direct Mapping

When the layer 2 address is smaller than the layer 3 address, it is possible to define a direct mapping between them so that the hardware address can be determined directly from the network layer address. This makes address resolution extremely simple, but reduces flexibility in how addresses are assigned.

Dynamic Address Resolution

if Device A and Device B are separated by a router, they would not be considered local to each other. Device A would not send directly to Device B or vice versa; they would send to the router instead at layer 2 and would be considered two hops apart at layer 3.

Since ARP relies on broadcasts for address resolution, and broadcasts are not propagated beyond a physical network, ARP cannot function between devices on different physical networks. When such operation is required, a device, such as a router, can be configured as an ARP proxy to respond to ARP requests on the behalf of a device on a different network.

IP multicast addresses are resolved to IEEE 802 (Ethernet) MAC addresses using a direct mapping technique that uses 23 of the 28 bits in the IP multicast group address.

## RARP

1. why would you ever need to do this?

  there are some devices, such as diskless workstations, that don't have any means of storing an IP address where it can be easily retrieved. When these units are powered up, they know their physical address only (because it's wired into the hardware) but not their IP address.

  * ***ARP*** allows Device A to say, "I am Device A, and I have Device B's IP address. Device B please tell me your hardware address."
  * ***RARP*** is used by Device A to say, "I am Device A, and I am sending this broadcast using my hardware address; can someone please tell me my IP address?"

2. who knows Device A's IP address if Device A doesn't?

  a special RARP server must be configured to listen for RARP requests and then issue replies to them.

steps in a RARP transaction:
1. Source Device Generates RARP Request Message
2. Source Device Broadcasts RARP Request Message
3. RARP Server Generates RARP Reply Message
4. RARP Server Generates RARP Reply Message
5. RARP Server Sends RARP Reply Message

  More than one RARP server may respond to a request, if two or more are configured on any local network. The source device will typically use the first reply and discard the others.
6. Source Device Processes RARP Reply Message
