# PPP


## LCP

#### LCP Packets

#### LCP Packet Configuration


Device A, send configure-request.

* Maximum Receive Unit (MRU)

  Lets Device A specify the maximum size datagram it wants the link to be able to carry
* Authentication Protocol

  Device A can indicate the type of authentication protocol it wishes to use (if any).
* Quality Protocol

  If Device A wants to enable quality monitoring on the link, what quality monitoring protocol to use (though there is only one currently defined: LQR).
* Magic Number

  Used to detect looped-back(回环) links or other anomalies(异常) in the connection.
* Protocol Field Compression

  Allows Device A to specify that it wants to use "compressed" (8-bit) Protocol fields in PPP data frames instead of the normal 16-bit Protocol field.
* Address and Control Field Compression (ACFC)

  he same as Protocol Field Compression, but used to compress the Address and Control fields for small bandwidth savings.

Device B, receive configure-request, and processes it.
* If every option in it is acceptable, Device B sends back a Configure-Ack (acknowledge) frame. The negotiation is complete.
* If Device B recognizes all the options that Device A sent as valid and is capable of negotiating, but it doesn't accept the values, Device B returns a Configure-Nak (negative acknowledge) frame. This message includes a copy of each configuration option that Device B found unacceptable.
* If any of the options that Device A sent were either unrecognized by Device B or represent ways of using the link that Device B considers not only unacceptable, but not even subject to negotiation, it returns a Configure-Reject containing each of the objectionable options.

The difference between a Configure-Nak and a Configure-Reject is that the former is like Device B saying, "I don't accept your terms, but I'll discuss," while the latter is Device B basically saying, "No way Jose!"

#### LCP Link Maintenance

* ***Code-Reject*** and ***Protocol-Reject*** These frame types are used to provide feedback when one device receives an invalid frame due to either an unrecognized LCP code (LCP frame type) or a bad protocol identifier.
* ***Echo-Request, Echo-Reply,*** and ***Discard-Request*** These frames can be used for testing the link.

#### LCP Link Termination

sends a Terminate-Request message. The other device replies with a Terminate-Ack message. A termination request indicates that the device sending it needs to close the link. This is a request that cannot be denied.

#### Other LCP Messages

### The Network Control Protocols

 PPP takes a modular approach to link establishment. LCP performs the basic link setup, and after (optional) authentication, invokes an NCP that is specific to each layer 3 protocol that is to be carried over the link.

Each NCP operates very much like a light version of LCP


Once the primary ***PPP*** link is established using ***LCP***, each network layer protocol to be carried over the link requires the establishment of the appropriate ***NCP*** link. The most important of these is the PPP ***Internet Protocol Control Protocol (IPCP)***, which allows IP datagrams to be carried over PPP.

### PPP Authentication Protocols: PAP and CHAP

#### PAP
PAP is a very straightforward authentication scheme, consisting of only two basic steps:
* Authentication Request

  The initiating device sends an Authenticate-Request message that contains a name and a password.
* Authentication Reply

  The responding device looks at the name and password and decides whether to accept the initiating device and continue setting up the link. If so, it sends back an Authenticate-Ack message. Otherwise, it sends an Authenticate-Nak message.


#### CHAP
The most important difference between PAP and CHAP is that CHAP doesn't transmit the password across the link. When using PAP, the initiator (calling client) sends the authenticator (generally the server that is deciding whether to grant authentication) a message saying essentially, "Here's the password I know; see if it matches yours." ***Each device uses the password to perform a cryptographic computation, and then checks to see if it gets the same result.*** If so, they know they have the same password.

 a three-way handshake:

 * ***Challenge***

  The authenticator generates a frame called a Challenge and sends it to the initiator. This frame contains a simple text message. The important thing is that after receipt of the Challenge, both devices have the same Challenge message.

 * ***Response***

  The initiator uses its password (or some other shared secret that the authenticators also know) to encrypt the challenge text. It then sends the encrypted challenge text as a Response back to the authenticator.

 * ***Success or Failure***

 The authenticator performs the same encryption on the challenge text that the initiator did. If the authenticator gets the same result that the initiator sent it in the Response, it knows that the initiator had the right password when it did its encryption,

***CHAP*** also provides protection against ***replay attacks***, whereby an unauthorized user captures a message and tries to send it again later on. This is done by changing an identifier in each message and varying the challenge text.


### PPP Multilink Protocol

The ***PPP Multilink Protocol*** (MP) allows PPP to bundle multiple physical links and use them like a single, high-capacity link. It must be enabled during link configuration. Once operational, it works by fragmenting whole PPP frames and sending the fragments over different physical links.

* ***Transmission***

  Typically, this is done by dividing the frame into fragments that are evenly spread out over the set of links. However, you can also implement an alternative strategy as well, such as alternating full-sized frames between the links.
* ***Reception***

  MP takes the fragments received from all physical links and reassembles them into the original PPP frame. That frame is then processed like any PPP frame by looking at its Protocol field and passing it to the appropriate network layer protocol.


## Frame Formats

### General Frame Format

* Flag, 1 byte

  Indicates the start of a PPP frame. Always has the value `01111110` binary (`0x7E` hexadecimal, or `126` decimal).

* Address, 1 byte

  In HDLC this is the address of the destination of the frame. But in PPP you are dealing with a direct link between two devices, so this field has no real meaning. It is thus always set to `11111111` (`0xFF` or `255` decimal), which is equivalent to a broadcast (it means "all stations").

* Control, 1 byte

  This field is used in HDLC for various control purposes, but in PPP it is set to `00000011` (`3` decimal).

* Protocol, 2 bytes

  Identifies the protocol of the datagram encapsulated in the Information field of the frame.

* Information, Variable

  Zero or more bytes of payload that contain either data or control information, depending on the frame type. For regular PPP data frames, the network layer datagram is encapsulated here. For control frames, the control information fields are placed here instead.

* Padding, Variable

  In some cases, additional dummy bytes may be added to pad out the size of the PPP frame.

* Frame Check Sequence, 2 or 4 bytes

  A checksum computed over the frame to provide basic protection against errors in transmission.

* Flag, 1 byte

  Indicates the end of a PPP frame. Always has the value `01111110` binary (`0x7E` hexadecimal, or `126` decimal).

#### Protocol Field

The Protocol field is the main frame type indicator for the device receiving the frame. *For data frames, this is normally the network layer protocol that created the datagram; for control frames, it is usually the PPP protocol that created the control message.*

In the case of protocols that modify data such as when compression (CCP) or encryption (ECP) are used (as explained in the previous chapter), this field identifies the data as being either compressed or encrypted, and the original Protocol value is extracted after the Information field is decompressed/decrypted.

The standard also specifies that the Protocol value must be assigned so that the first octet is even and the second octet is odd.


PPP uses the HDLC basic framing structure, which includes two fields that are needed in HDLC but aren't in PPP due to how the latter operates. The fields are the Address and Control fields. To avoid wasting two bytes in every frame, it is possible during initial link setup using the Link Control Protocol (LCP) for the two devices on the link to negotiate a feature called ***Address and Control Field Compression (ACFC)*** using the LCP option by that same name. When enabled, this feature simply causes these two fields not to be sent for most PPP frames (but not for LCP control frames).

如果address和control的byte是`0xff03`，说明这个时候没有使用ACFC

Similarly, it is also possible for the two devices on the link to negotiate compression of the Protocol field, so it takes only one byte instead of two. This is done generally by dropping the first byte if it is zero, a process called ***Protocol Field Compression (PFC)***.

同样的，protocol要求第一个byte是偶数，第二个byte是奇数，说明没有使用PFC


### Control Frame Format

和genral的格式相同，控制信息在Information这个部分：
* Code， 1 byte

  A single byte value that indicates what type of control message is in this control frame. It is sometimes instead called Type in certain PPP standards.

* Identifier, 1 byte

  his is a label field that's used to match up requests with replies. When a request is sent, a new Identifier is generated. When a reply is created, the value from the Identifier field in the request that prompted the reply is used for the reply's Identifier field.

* length, 2 bytes

  Specifies the length of the control frame. This is needed because the Data field is variable in length. The Length field is specified in bytes and includes all the fields in the control frame including the Code, Identifier, Length, and Data fields.

* Data, variable

  Contains information specific to the message type.

This entire structure becomes the payload of a PPP frame, meaning that it fits into the Information field of a PPP frame

... 太难看了，以后有需要再补完吧...
